

o80 (pronounced "oh-eighty") is a software for synchronizing and organizing message exchange between processes via a simple customized python API.

When using o80, a follower processes will encapsulate instances of BackEnd, while master processes will encapsulate instances of FrontEnd. An instance of FrontEnd provides method for sending commands to the Backend, as well as method for synchronizing the iterations of the follower process with the iterations of the master processes. The instance of the Backend will consume the queues of commands generated by the instances of FrontEnd, while sharing with them observations.

In its typical usage, an instance of o80 BackEnd will be encapsulated in a realtime process that controls a robot (real or simulated). The commands generated by the instances of FrontEnd will correspond to desired states for the robot's joints. The observation shared by the back-ends will encapsulate information about the current observed states of the joints.

o80 FrontEnd exposes convenient methods for sending desired joint states values. These methods allows to specify explicity desired states trajectory, i.e. desired states values for each time real time backend iteration. They allow also to specify implicit trajectories, i.e. trajectories of desired states and indication on how the backend should interpolate between them.

The objective of o80 is to provide a simple python API which allows for (non realtime) python front-ends to interact with (real time c++ coded) backends.



o80 API allows user code to instantiate instances of FrontEnd, which can be used to interact with a separate process. Interacting  